---
author: Deep Gopani
title: An Impressive Buy from a Household Name
layout: posts
---
Right now, there is a compelling investment opportunity in the Enterprise Software space that, just a quarter ago, I would have passed by due to misperception of its strategic value proposition. If you’d asked me a month ago what kind of company Dropbox (DBX) is, I would’ve said (under the same impression of many common users) that it is a commoditized file storage and sharing platform that frankly pales in comparison to the giants which are giving away the same solutions for free (Microsoft, Google, etc.).  Independent of valuation, I would have said DBX’s lack of competitive advantage put its survival on shaky grounds. However, as I dug into the company’s new vision and product strategy, I became convinced it can not only coexist with the giants but in fact can thrive and carve its own niche into relevancy. At $17/share, DBX currently offers an enormous upside of 60-100% within a year.

In Q3’2019, DBX announced a change to the model that had defined them for over a decade. Instead of merely focusing on Cloud storage and file sharing, it is now in the arena of Smart Workspaces. An average professional user currently utilizes between 5 to 35 applications (Google, Microsoft, Salesforce, Adobe, Zoom, Atlassian, Slack, Autodesk, etc.) in work environments, where content is spread out between desktops, the Cloud, and mobile applications. What Dropbox is offering is a workspace where you can control and consolidate this content without having to jump from one app to another.  People can work and share multiple files in one place, streamlining the workflow of companies of any scale. Dropbox’s ecosystem is very encompassing, spanning from Adobe to Autodesk to Microsoft to Google, allowing any type of application workflow to be accelerated using Dropbox’s workspace. Combined with artificial intelligence to personalize and prioritize individual workflow, Dropbox’s new platform will be a force to be reckoned with. 

This is without mentioning HelloSign’s integration into DBX’s software, which provides additional streamlining by allowing users to sign documents digitally without the roundabout paper process still standard in office spaces today. Docusign (DOCU) is centered around just one major eSignature app, and yet it has a market cap of $13B, almost double DBX’s $7B (which includes its new collaboration platform).  It would be an understatement to say that DBX’s new software lineup is promising for the future.  In fact, I would go so far as to say that DBX’s smart workspace will define how future work environments need to be, maximizing user productivity by eliminating the app jumping, file sending workflow of today.  

DBX hit an all-time low on 12/13/19, more than 20% below the IPO about 20 months ago. This was following the Chief Customer Officer’s announcement of resignation on 12/10, being the third Chief level executive to leave since the IPO. While this may not substantiate the $450 million drop in market cap in the days following the resignation announcement, it is understandable that investors are apprehensive about such management changes. 

The main reason for DBX’s falling share price in recent months can be attributed to its revenue growth rate. In Q2’19, DBX reported a growth rate of ~19%, continuing a deceleration from 40% to 31% in 2017 and 2018, respectively. Bears believed this marked a continued decrease in growth, but were proven wrong by Q3’19, which showed the first revenue acceleration since the start of its declining growth rate in 2017. That quarter, revenues hit $428.2 million, beating the Street estimates.
At ~$17/share, DBX is trading around 3.3X forward revenues (excluding excess cash), despite generating nearly 20% in FCF margin.  With a strong balance sheet (cash of over $1B and no debt), over 14 million paying accounts (up from 12 million accounts a year ago), and over 600 million registered users, DBX is operating at an enormous scale, giving it a huge competitive moat. While the giants focus on their own ecosystems, DBX provides a smart workspace that allows users to navigate through all the giants’ territories on a single platform.  As DBX’s strategy gains traction and its growth rate stabilizes in the 15-20% range, its multiple should climb to ~5X forward revenues, translating to a 60%-100% gain in stock price.
