---
author: Deep Gopani
title: Nutanix's Transition from Non-recurring to SaaS
layout: posts
---  
Nutanix, as a cloud infrastructure and services company, has recently made the final strides in transitioning from a mostly non-recurring model to recurring SaaS revenues, which provides an excellent entry point given the compelling valuation. 

Nutanix is a fierce leader in Hyperconverged Infrastructure (HCI), which is a streamlined and more efficient form of cloud storage. With over 14,180 clients currently and annual revenues of $1.24 billion, it has demonstrated the attractive potential of its software. Its Enterprise Value to Sales multiple is just 3.54—surprisingly low for a company with such cutting-edge technology. The question is, why?

The answer has to do with visible growth and invisible growth. From fiscal 2018 to fiscal 2019, billings of NTNX only grew by about 6.3%, seemingly lackluster given the sector Nutanix is in and the type of technology it is providing. This is where the misconception has propagated from. Because of the relatively stagnant growth rate compared to other similar competitors, Nutanix seems like a company that just refuses to grow. What is going on behind the scenes, however, tells a different story.

Something that has been dragging at Nutanix’s heels for the duration of its existence is the (now frankly outdated) non-recurring hardware/software model. NTNX had been selling hardware along with one-time license software. As a result, they had narrower margins and a model that simply wasn’t as sustainable. Thus, NTNX has been working to change that. 

In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2019, NTNX reported 71% of its revenues coming from recurring subscription revenues, up from 52% at the same time last year. Their Non-GAAP margins are 78.1%, up from 68.1% the previous year. NTNX has been in the process of transitioning to a subscription-based model. The growth isn’t coming from revenues, it’s coming from a shift to a better model! Take Adobe, for example. In May 2013, they switched to a subscription-based model and have now seen explosive growth, with their stock price having increased more than 600% in the last six years. Nutanix has similar prospects with their shift to a SaaS model. Furthermore, with the recent integration of HCI with ServiceNow, Nutanix has shown greater promise as a leader in the cloud infrastructure sector.

Overall, NTNX is in a brief window of time where its growth is being masked because of the transition from non-recurring to recurring revenues. At ~$25/share, it presents a fairly attractive entry point with a 50% upside within 2 years. One thing investors have to keep in mind, however, is the churn of NTNX; that is, their loss of existing customers. While there hasn’t been any published evidence of high churn, it is nonetheless an issue to be mindful of, as we have seen with Cloudera and its downfall due to its high churn. Other than that, NTNX has a bright future ahead, with subscription-based revenues expected to exceed 80% within a few quarters.
