---
author: Deep Gopani
title: Does Cloudera have a compelling risk/reward tradeoff?
layout: posts
---

Mr cat

On the surface, Cloudera (CLDR) seems like an incredibly cheap stock trading around ~3X revenues.
Being an enterprise cloud platform company, it certainly is in a promising space. With subscriptions
revenue growing at 16% in the most recent quarter ending July 31, 2019 and accounting for 84% of total
revenues, and gross margins hovering around ~70%, the fundamentals are nothing to scoff at. Its total
cash flow from operating activities for first 6 months of 2019 were of -$21MM, and cash plus
marketable securities exceeded $500mm, reflecting a healthy balance sheet. Why is the price of
Cloudera stock then well below its IPO price and in single digit around $7.30/share (as of 9/4/19)?

It all seems to originate with the merger with Hortonworks back in January of this year (2019). After the
deal, CLDR saw a huge jump in customer churn and cut in future revenue projection from around
$1Billion in 2019 to $750MM after the first quarter earnings announcement. This huge mismanagement
of expectations resulted in numerous lawsuits to be filed against the company by irate investors. On top
of that, the CEO resigned abruptly and said that Public Cloud players were poaching clients and that
their old product platform was not competitive as of then. In fact, the revised guidance seemed to
indicate that CLDR may not see subscriber growth for a long time, something that CLDR needs to rely on
for overall growth. Management had badly destroyed investor trust and confidence, and the whole
investment thesis about CLDR being a growth company was in jeopardy.

This is where Carl Icahn comes into the mix. After disclosing his 12.6 percent stake in Cloudera (later
raised to 18.9 percent), he obtained two seats on the board of directors. This signaled an upward trend
in Cloudera, as this activist investor is likely to position the company for a buyout. In addition,
company’s new product CDP (Cloudera Data Platform) is showing some promise as a differentiated
offering, and is in early stages of being rolled out. How well it does remains to be seen, but this may be
the foundation for Cloudera’s growth in future. With the search of a new CEO and the uncertainty that
plagues a company during it, Cloudera has been understandably in a bit of chaos. However, the stock
has jumped by nearly 50% from its bottom around $5/share 3 months ago, and is on upward trajectory
with its recently announced acquisition of Arcadia Data, a business intelligence tools vendor.

The question remains, though: Is now a good time to buy? Despite the turmoil that has ensued in recent
months, the answer is a firm “Yes.” CDP holds promise and it seems to be turning in a good direction;
and with Carl Icahn as a significant stakeholder company will be sold sooner rather than later.
Company’s partnership with IBM is a big positive as well, and it is likely that IBM may be the eventual
acquiror. Yes, Cloudera still has the possibility to plummet, but the risk/reward is compelling with
downside of ~25% and upside of ~100% within 2 years. 
